hi everyone welcome to tuesday coffee
break with pam i would like to answer
three questions this tuesday
and they are number one how to align
marketing to business strategies and the
rest of the organization and i think
that's very important and that you need
to know how to do that number two what
strategy should i use to generate more
qualified leads and subsequently more
sales okay that's also a nice question
to answer
number three
what is the my one of my biggest
challenges is martech
what should i start and uh what can i
avoid
martech mess
that's also a very good question so
these are the three questions i would
like to share with you in terms of my
point of view and we'll take it from
there okay
number one how to align marketing to
business strategies and the rest of
organizations
and um
if you are a marketer it doesn't matter
what you do like you do you create
content you write blog posts or you do
email campaigns
a lot of time we tend to be in the weeds
and do the stuff we do and then we have
a ritual like you know on tuesday we
send out the email on thursday we check
on the you know the performance of the
email that we send out
but
it's very important to get yourself out
of the weed
and have
an understanding in terms of what you do
connect with the overall big objectives
of an organization
so when i was an individual contributor
and work in a big corporation i always
understand what is the annual sales goal
that my company wants
wanted to accomplish i also understand
the new market we want to go after
so if you have an understanding of the
business objective or the business goal
a company that you want to accomplish
then
you can try to make the connection
between what you do with that bigger
goal
does that make sense for example um your
company wants to target a brand new
market and that's assumed that the
healthcare
if you are creating content then you
need to think about okay some of the
content i created needs to target food
for the healthcare segments if you are
creating messaging you need to think
through that okay my product messagings
need to somehow tailor or
maybe need to change a little bit
and create a customized messaging
framework specifically for health care
so understanding that business business
goal
in terms of what the company want to
accomplish is very critical and then
make a connection directly or indirectly
to the stuff that you are doing does
that make sense
so when you are creating any kind of
marketing plan even you created just an
email marketing plan based on what you
do always start with the business goals
what the company want to accomplish the
revenue the specific segment they want
to go after or the people they want to
talk to
right
then you create it in terms of what your
strategy or what your plans are to
accomplish that does that make sense so
the best way to do that is write down
write down the way you understand
what the business goals are
and then write down the things that you
will do
on a regular basis and see if you can
make that connection
it's very important and a lot of time
you can because you are employees of
your company
obviously everything you do matters
so just try to make that connection and
quantify that and make sure everybody
understands as well
okay
so that's what i would do if i were you
and then of course if you are managing a
team
right you always have to create a team
objective
or the team
a goal that you want to accomplish
so try to do you know kind of evaluation
and check
in terms of the goal that you set up
with your teams
also have an impact or can directly or
indirectly connect it to the overall
company business objective
right so do that check
and make sure they are connected and
that is one way that you can quantify in
terms of your contribution
to your company's overall sales and the
business goals okay so that's question
number one
number two
what strategy should i use to generate
more qualified leads
and help close down more sales all right
everybody is asking that question
and nobody has a solid answer in terms
of what needs to be done that's because
it's very situational and it also
depends
if you want to generate more leads
you have to look at in terms of okay
what
is your company doing right now
for the lead generation or the main gym
how is that working
if your company is doing a lot of events
so is that working pretty well
are the sales people pretty happy with
the leads that you generate
right do a little bit of overall
assessments in terms of the channels you
are using
and what the results are are you happy
are you not happy if you are not happy
why
if you don't have anything
well then start with your sales team
first
right understand how they sell
and what they do
and try to
align what you do with them
the reason is marketing exists to help
the sales to close deals or to sell more
products
of course we want to build the brain
awareness all that stuff that's very
important but at the end of the day is
creating actually more customer or the
business opportunities for the sales
team
so the way i would do what strategy
should you use that question is kind of
like it really depends on what you do
and what kind of marketing channel that
you are using within your company
so do an overall assessment of that
first
understand how each channel is
performing
and why you are not getting leads maybe
that channel is not working you should
try a different channel or you need to
actually have a completely different
content to support that
right find out what channel you use
what are the causes
um that's not performing and then
determine if you want to use that
channel or not if you do want to use it
what are some of the way that you can
test it and optimize it okay
and then track the results
i don't have a very specific tactic that
you can use
it really depends on your roles and your
responsibility and what you do in terms
of domain jam and i'm gonna use myself
as an example
the way i get leads is actually from
attending conferences and speaking at
the conferences and also doing a
workshop
okay
i try email campaigns i try facebook pay
ads i try many different things
the most leads i get tend to be i get
myself out there and i start speaking
okay
so then pandemic hit
nobody can travel
so i started doing my own webinar so i
did like over i did the monthly webinar
in 2020
the results
were not that great
the conversion rate is very small
the registration is always very big but
in terms of conversion is not there
so i changed that i said okay after i
did that for one and a half years it's
not doing well so i shut that down the
webinar right it's not generating
release then i start focusing on
existing customers
to get more opportunity from existing
customers okay that actually worked out
pretty well
honestly
so you have to somehow look at what you
do and you constantly make adjustments
you know in terms of why you need to
dial up and dial down and there's no set
rules in terms of dimension and how you
generate more qualified leads does that
make sense
okay so that's question number two but
if you want to talk about your tactic
your tactics
and you want to have brainstorm with
someone reach out to me and let's talk
all right
number three
one of my biggest challenges is matec
that's everybody's challenge right there
i answer the questions
where should i start and how can i avoid
matec mess
all right
here is the reality of truth you can
avoid martech mess
every single company are using more than
20 or 30 in the big enterprises
sometimes over 120 applications
okay to do various different functions
to have data connected in different way
and uh we are using my tag just trying
to make our job easy everybody is doing
a different job therefore we're using
different tools and the platforms that's
just the way it is
my tag in general is a mess
okay so you cannot avoid it i want to
make that very clear to everyone okay
and there's no clean cut
the thing about martech it's kind of
like dating
actually
you know it's like
when you're on tinder or when you're on
the you know
any uh dating app
you don't know what you're gonna get
yourself into you look at that person
you look at that their profile and
you're like oh that sounds interesting
and you start dating and say oh my god
this is a total mess and you want to get
out all right and the mod tag is similar
you know a lot of tools look very very
good when the first time you evaluate it
and then once you start implementing
you're like oh my god this is not what
i'm looking for oh my god this is so
hard to use
right and then or you were trying to
make an effort to make it work right you
build some sort of code to get around it
or you work with a vendor to modify it
whatever you do you will try to make the
mod tech to work all right
and sometimes it doesn't then you have
to kind of like dump it and then try
some other stuff
right
so
how do you start
the two tools that you need on the
marketing and sales side is definitely
marketing automation and cim okay so you
need to have basically these two tools
you also need to actually have a tool to
actually gather customer data but in
general that by itself is can be
residing these two two tools i'm talking
about marketing automation and crm
now many many of the cim tools they
actually provide the marketing
automation tools and mainly marketing
automation tools trying to go to cim
territory so there are a lot of
overlapping between the two or sometimes
you can use one to actually serve both
like for example i use zoho and i use
100 cim even when i send out the email
marketing campaigns i'm using the cim
tool to send that i don't use like the
marketing automation tool
but again my list is not huge so i can
do that and also i segment it right i
send out you know a a certain amount of
email every single day and i categorize
my subscriber to like tier one two three
and four
based on the engagements with me
and um so what i'm trying to say
is
where should you start you should
actually have two right started with cim
and the marketing automation tool
and then determine what kind of channel
that you want to use to do your
marketing
then you source a different tools based
on the channel that you use but whatever
channel you use you always have to
connect it to cin and also marketing
automation tool does that make sense so
there's a back-end integration that you
have to take into account
so my tag is everybody's challenge
and uh there's no way to get around it a
lot of time like i said it's kind of
like a dating you have to try a tool and
see how that works and i'll do a pilot
run
first or like you take somebody for like
several months and say okay this is not
working
anyway and then determine if that tool
actually works for you
and um
once you start
tangling with tools it's always messy
there's not much to it okay but the
bottom line is you need to actually have
a sense of clarity in mind what you want
to accomplish even though the data the
the tools might be messy and the things
that moving from one place to another
some of them automatic some of them are
manual but you need to have a sense of
clarity what you want to accomplish if
you have that sense of clarity then you
can deal with the messiness but if you
don't know what you want
then
the messiness become incredibly
stressful
so a lot of time i always recommend and
to share with my clients when they are
like ah in the middle of like oh my god
this you know my tag is overwhelming me
i don't know what else to do well the
thing is to sit back
and think through what do you want to
accomplish
what tools are using to actually doing
that for the time being is it working is
it not
let's break down
you know your challenges your question
and the breakdown to each small question
and trying to find the answer and just
tackle one piece at a time
all right don't stress yourself out it's
not life and death
all right so that's my three questions
for you today i mean and also my answers
if you have any specific challenges in
terms of martech reach out to me as well
and it's hard and a lot of time from my
perspective the mod tag has multiple
things
not just it has to be connected in
addition is how you use it on top of it
is what are some of the messagings copy
and images that you should use to create
that seamless customer experience
there's multiple layers and complexity
associated with mod tag and the digital
marketing i know it's hard we'll hang in
there okay or we can talk more take care
bye